README.md, before:

<div class="oranda-hide">

# 🦑 use-mcp 🦑

</div>

[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp?logo=github&style=flat&label=​)](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp)&nbsp; [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/use-mcp?label=​&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/use-mcp) ![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp)

A lightweight client for connecting to [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol) servers. Provides a React hook and a Svelte store adapter to simplify authentication and tool calling.

Try it out: [Chat Demo](https://chat.use-mcp.dev) | [MCP Inspector](https://inspector.use-mcp.dev) | [Cloudflare Workers AI Playground](https://playground.ai.cloudflare.com/)

## Installation

```bash
npm install @gary149/use-mcp
# or
pnpm add @gary149/use-mcp
# or
yarn add @gary149/use-mcp
```

## Development

To run the development environment with all examples and servers:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

This starts:
- **Inspector**: http://localhost:5001 - MCP server debugging tool
- **Chat UI**: http://localhost:5002 - Example chat interface
- **Hono MCP Server**: http://localhost:5101 - Example MCP server
- **CF Agents MCP Server**: http://localhost:5102 - Cloudflare Workers AI MCP server

### Testing

Integration tests are located in the `test/` directory and run headlessly by default:

```bash
cd test && pnpm test              # Run tests headlessly (default)
cd test && pnpm test:headed       # Run tests with visible browser
cd test && pnpm test:watch        # Run tests in watch mode
cd test && pnpm test:ui           # Run tests with interactive UI
```

## Features

- 🔄 Automatic connection management with reconnection and retries
- 🔐 OAuth authentication flow handling with popup and fallback support
- 📦 Simple React hook and Svelte store adapters for MCP integration
- 🧰 Full support for MCP tools, resources, and prompts
- 📄 Access server resources and read their contents
- 💬 Use server-provided prompt templates
- 🧰 TypeScript types for editor assistance and type checking
- 📝 Comprehensive logging for debugging
- 🌐 Works with both HTTP and SSE (Server-Sent Events) transports (HTTP streaming recommended)

## Quick Start (React)

```tsx
import { useMcp } from '@gary149/use-mcp/react'

function MyAIComponent() {
  const {
    state,          // Connection state: 'discovering' | 'pending_auth' | 'authenticating' | 'connecting' | 'loading' | 'ready' | 'failed'
    tools,          // Available tools from MCP server
    resources,      // Available resources from MCP server
    prompts,        // Available prompts from MCP server
    error,          // Error message if connection failed
    callTool,       // Function to call tools on the MCP server
    readResource,   // Function to read resource contents
    getPrompt,      // Function to get prompt messages
    retry,          // Retry connection manually
    authenticate,   // Manually trigger authentication
    clearStorage,   // Clear stored tokens and credentials
  } = useMcp({
    url: 'https://your-mcp-server.com',
    clientName: 'My App',
    autoReconnect: true,
  })

  // Handle different states
  if (state === 'failed') {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>Connection failed: {error}</p>
        <button onClick={retry}>Retry</button>
        <button onClick={authenticate}>Authenticate Manually</button>
      </div>
    )
  }

  if (state !== 'ready') {
    return <div>Connecting to AI service...</div>
  }

  // Use available tools
  const handleSearch = async () => {
    try {
      const result = await callTool('search', { query: 'example search' })
      console.log('Search results:', result)
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('Tool call failed:', err)
    }
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Available Tools: {tools.length}</h2>
      <ul>
        {tools.map(tool => (
          <li key={tool.name}>{tool.name}</li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      <button onClick={handleSearch}>Search</button>
      
      {/* Example: Display and read resources */}
      {resources.length > 0 && (
        <div>
          <h3>Resources: {resources.length}</h3>
          <button onClick={async () => {
            const content = await readResource(resources[0].uri)
            console.log('Resource content:', content)
          }}>
            Read First Resource
          </button>
        </div>
      )}
      
      {/* Example: Use prompts */}
      {prompts.length > 0 && (
        <div>
          <h3>Prompts: {prompts.length}</h3>
          <button onClick={async () => {
            const result = await getPrompt(prompts[0].name)
            console.log('Prompt messages:', result.messages)
          }}>
            Get First Prompt
          </button>
        </div>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Quick Start (Svelte/SvelteKit)

```ts
// src/lib/mcp.ts
import { browser } from '$app/environment'
import { createMcp } from '@gary149/use-mcp/svelte'

export const mcp = browser ? createMcp({
  url: 'https://your-mcp-server.com',
  clientName: 'My App',
  autoReconnect: true,
  // transportType: 'http', // recommended; SSE is legacy
}) : undefined
```

```svelte
<!-- src/routes/+page.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
  import { mcp } from '$lib/mcp'
</script>

{#if mcp}
  {#if $mcp.state === 'failed'}
    <p>Connection failed: {$mcp.error}</p>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.retry()}>Retry</button>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.authenticate()}>Authenticate Manually</button>
  {:else if $mcp.state !== 'ready'}
    <p>Connecting to AI service…</p>
  {:else}
    <h2>Available Tools: {$mcp.tools.length}</h2>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.callTool('search', { query: 'example search' })}>
      Search
    </button>
  {/if}
{:else}
  <p>Loading…</p>
{/if}
```

## Setting Up OAuth Callback

To handle the OAuth authentication flow, you need to set up a callback endpoint in your app.

### With React Router

```tsx
// App.tsx with React Router
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom'
import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { onMcpAuthorization } from 'use-mcp'

function OAuthCallback() {
  useEffect(() => {
    onMcpAuthorization()
  }, [])

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Authenticating...</h1>
      <p>This window should close automatically.</p>
    </div>
  )
}

function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/oauth/callback" element={<OAuthCallback />} />
        <Route path="/" element={<YourMainComponent />} />
      </Routes>
    </Router>
  )
}
```

### With Next.js Pages Router

```tsx
// pages/oauth/callback.tsx
import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { onMcpAuthorization } from 'use-mcp'

export default function OAuthCallbackPage() {
  useEffect(() => {
    onMcpAuthorization()
  }, [])

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Authenticating...</h1>
      <p>This window should close automatically.</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

### With SvelteKit

```svelte
<!-- src/routes/oauth/callback/+page.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
  import { onMount } from 'svelte'
  import { onMcpAuthorization } from '@gary149/use-mcp'
  onMount(() => onMcpAuthorization())
</script>

<h1>Authenticating…</h1>
<p>This window should close automatically.</p>
```

Note: When using HTTP streaming transport across origins, ensure your MCP server CORS configuration allows and exposes the `Mcp-Session-Id` header so the browser can maintain the session. If your OAuth callback is hosted on a different origin (e.g., auth subdomain), pass `allowedOrigins: ['https://auth.example.com']` to `createMcp(...)` so the popup callback message is accepted.

## API Reference

### `useMcp` Hook

```ts
function useMcp(options: UseMcpOptions): UseMcpResult
```

#### Options

| Option | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `url` | `string` | **Required**. URL of your MCP server |
| `clientName` | `string` | Name of your client for OAuth registration |
| `clientUri` | `string` | URI of your client for OAuth registration |
| `callbackUrl` | `string` | Custom callback URL for OAuth redirect (defaults to `/oauth/callback` on the current origin) |
| `storageKeyPrefix` | `string` | Storage key prefix for OAuth data in localStorage (defaults to "mcp:auth") |
| `clientConfig` | `object` | Custom configuration for the MCP client identity |
| `debug` | `boolean` | Whether to enable verbose debug logging |
| `autoRetry` | `boolean \| number` | Auto retry connection if initial connection fails, with delay in ms |
| `autoReconnect` | `boolean \| number` | Auto reconnect if an established connection is lost, with delay in ms (default: 3000) |
| `transportType` | `'auto' \| 'http' \| 'sse'` | Transport type preference: 'auto' (HTTP with SSE fallback), 'http' (HTTP only), 'sse' (SSE only) (default: 'auto') |
| `preventAutoAuth` | `boolean` | Prevent automatic authentication popup on initial connection (default: false) |
| `onPopupWindow` | `(url: string, features: string, window: Window \| null) => void` | Callback invoked just after the authentication popup window is opened |

#### Return Value

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `state` | `string` | Current connection state: 'discovering', 'pending_auth', 'authenticating', 'connecting', 'loading', 'ready', 'failed' |
| `tools` | `Tool[]` | Available tools from the MCP server |
| `resources` | `Resource[]` | Available resources from the MCP server |
| `resourceTemplates` | `ResourceTemplate[]` | Available resource templates from the MCP server |
| `prompts` | `Prompt[]` | Available prompts from the MCP server |
| `error` | `string \| undefined` | Error message if connection failed |
| `authUrl` | `string \| undefined` | Manual authentication URL if popup is blocked |
| `log` | `{ level: 'debug' \| 'info' \| 'warn' \| 'error'; message: string; timestamp: number }[]` | Array of log messages |
| `callTool` | `(name: string, args?: Record<string, unknown>) => Promise<any>` | Function to call a tool on the MCP server |
| `listResources` | `() => Promise<void>` | Refresh the list of available resources |
| `readResource` | `(uri: string) => Promise<{ contents: Array<...> }>` | Read the contents of a specific resource |
| `listPrompts` | `() => Promise<void>` | Refresh the list of available prompts |
| `getPrompt` | `(name: string, args?: Record<string, string>) => Promise<{ messages: Array<...> }>` | Get a specific prompt with optional arguments |
| `retry` | `() => void` | Manually attempt to reconnect |
| `disconnect` | `() => void` | Disconnect from the MCP server |
| `authenticate` | `() => void` | Manually trigger authentication |
| `clearStorage` | `() => void` | Clear all stored authentication data |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

chore: remove use-mcp-svelte-scaffold; move myapp to examples/inspector-svelte and rename; update .gitignore and README

README.md, after:

<div class="oranda-hide">

# 🦑 use-mcp 🦑

</div>

[![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp?logo=github&style=flat&label=​)](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp)&nbsp; [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/use-mcp?label=​&logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/use-mcp) ![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/modelcontextprotocol/use-mcp)

A lightweight client for connecting to [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol) servers. Provides a React hook and a Svelte store adapter to simplify authentication and tool calling.

Try it out: [Chat Demo](https://chat.use-mcp.dev) | [MCP Inspector](https://inspector.use-mcp.dev) | [Cloudflare Workers AI Playground](https://playground.ai.cloudflare.com/)

Examples in this repo:
- examples/chat-ui – React chat interface using `use-mcp`
- examples/inspector – React MCP inspector
- examples/inspector-svelte – SvelteKit inspector with per‑tool inputs

## Installation

```bash
npm install @gary149/use-mcp
# or
pnpm add @gary149/use-mcp
# or
yarn add @gary149/use-mcp
```

## Development

To run the development environment with the React examples and servers:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

This starts:
- **Inspector**: http://localhost:5001 - MCP server debugging tool
- **Chat UI**: http://localhost:5002 - Example chat interface
- **Hono MCP Server**: http://localhost:5101 - Example MCP server
- **CF Agents MCP Server**: http://localhost:5102 - Cloudflare Workers AI MCP server

Svelte inspector example:

```bash
cd examples/inspector-svelte
pnpm install
pnpm dev
```
Then open the local URL shown by Vite and connect to an MCP server (e.g. https://huggingface.co/mcp). The UI lists tools and provides input fields generated from each tool's JSON schema.

### Testing

Integration tests are located in the `test/` directory and run headlessly by default:

```bash
cd test && pnpm test              # Run tests headlessly (default)
cd test && pnpm test:headed       # Run tests with visible browser
cd test && pnpm test:watch        # Run tests in watch mode
cd test && pnpm test:ui           # Run tests with interactive UI
```

## Features

- 🔄 Automatic connection management with reconnection and retries
- 🔐 OAuth authentication flow handling with popup and fallback support
- 📦 Simple React hook and Svelte store adapters for MCP integration
- 🧰 Full support for MCP tools, resources, and prompts
- 📄 Access server resources and read their contents
- 💬 Use server-provided prompt templates
- 🧰 TypeScript types for editor assistance and type checking
- 📝 Comprehensive logging for debugging
- 🌐 Works with both HTTP and SSE (Server-Sent Events) transports (HTTP streaming recommended)

## Quick Start (React)

```tsx
import { useMcp } from '@gary149/use-mcp/react'

function MyAIComponent() {
  const {
    state,          // Connection state: 'discovering' | 'pending_auth' | 'authenticating' | 'connecting' | 'loading' | 'ready' | 'failed'
    tools,          // Available tools from MCP server
    resources,      // Available resources from MCP server
    prompts,        // Available prompts from MCP server
    error,          // Error message if connection failed
    callTool,       // Function to call tools on the MCP server
    readResource,   // Function to read resource contents
    getPrompt,      // Function to get prompt messages
    retry,          // Retry connection manually
    authenticate,   // Manually trigger authentication
    clearStorage,   // Clear stored tokens and credentials
  } = useMcp({
    url: 'https://your-mcp-server.com',
    clientName: 'My App',
    autoReconnect: true,
  })

  // Handle different states
  if (state === 'failed') {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>Connection failed: {error}</p>
        <button onClick={retry}>Retry</button>
        <button onClick={authenticate}>Authenticate Manually</button>
      </div>
    )
  }

  if (state !== 'ready') {
    return <div>Connecting to AI service...</div>
  }

  // Use available tools
  const handleSearch = async () => {
    try {
      const result = await callTool('search', { query: 'example search' })
      console.log('Search results:', result)
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('Tool call failed:', err)
    }
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Available Tools: {tools.length}</h2>
      <ul>
        {tools.map(tool => (
          <li key={tool.name}>{tool.name}</li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      <button onClick={handleSearch}>Search</button>
      
      {/* Example: Display and read resources */}
      {resources.length > 0 && (
        <div>
          <h3>Resources: {resources.length}</h3>
          <button onClick={async () => {
            const content = await readResource(resources[0].uri)
            console.log('Resource content:', content)
          }}>
            Read First Resource
          </button>
        </div>
      )}
      
      {/* Example: Use prompts */}
      {prompts.length > 0 && (
        <div>
          <h3>Prompts: {prompts.length}</h3>
          <button onClick={async () => {
            const result = await getPrompt(prompts[0].name)
            console.log('Prompt messages:', result.messages)
          }}>
            Get First Prompt
          </button>
        </div>
      )}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Quick Start (Svelte/SvelteKit)

```ts
// src/lib/mcp.ts
import { browser } from '$app/environment'
import { createMcp } from '@gary149/use-mcp/svelte'

export const mcp = browser ? createMcp({
  url: 'https://your-mcp-server.com',
  clientName: 'My App',
  autoReconnect: true,
  // transportType: 'http', // recommended; SSE is legacy
}) : undefined
```

```svelte
<!-- src/routes/+page.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
  import { mcp } from '$lib/mcp'
</script>

{#if mcp}
  {#if $mcp.state === 'failed'}
    <p>Connection failed: {$mcp.error}</p>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.retry()}>Retry</button>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.authenticate()}>Authenticate Manually</button>
  {:else if $mcp.state !== 'ready'}
    <p>Connecting to AI service…</p>
  {:else}
    <h2>Available Tools: {$mcp.tools.length}</h2>
    <button on:click={() => mcp.callTool('search', { query: 'example search' })}>
      Search
    </button>
  {/if}
{:else}
  <p>Loading…</p>
{/if}
```

## Setting Up OAuth Callback

To handle the OAuth authentication flow, you need to set up a callback endpoint in your app.

### With React Router

```tsx
// App.tsx with React Router
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom'
import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { onMcpAuthorization } from 'use-mcp'

function OAuthCallback() {
  useEffect(() => {
    onMcpAuthorization()
  }, [])

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Authenticating...</h1>
      <p>This window should close automatically.</p>
    </div>
  )
}

function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/oauth/callback" element={<OAuthCallback />} />
        <Route path="/" element={<YourMainComponent />} />
      </Routes>
    </Router>
  )
}
```

### With Next.js Pages Router

```tsx
// pages/oauth/callback.tsx
import { useEffect } from 'react'
import { onMcpAuthorization } from 'use-mcp'

export default function OAuthCallbackPage() {
  useEffect(() => {
    onMcpAuthorization()
  }, [])

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Authenticating...</h1>
      <p>This window should close automatically.</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

### With SvelteKit

```svelte
<!-- src/routes/oauth/callback/+page.svelte -->
<script lang="ts">
  import { onMount } from 'svelte'
  import { onMcpAuthorization } from '@gary149/use-mcp'
  onMount(() => onMcpAuthorization())
</script>

<h1>Authenticating…</h1>
<p>This window should close automatically.</p>
```

Note: When using HTTP streaming transport across origins, ensure your MCP server CORS configuration allows and exposes the `Mcp-Session-Id` header so the browser can maintain the session. If your OAuth callback is hosted on a different origin (e.g., auth subdomain), pass `allowedOrigins: ['https://auth.example.com']` to `createMcp(...)` so the popup callback message is accepted.

## API Reference

### `useMcp` Hook

```ts
function useMcp(options: UseMcpOptions): UseMcpResult
```

#### Options

| Option | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `url` | `string` | **Required**. URL of your MCP server |
| `clientName` | `string` | Name of your client for OAuth registration |
| `clientUri` | `string` | URI of your client for OAuth registration |
| `callbackUrl` | `string` | Custom callback URL for OAuth redirect (defaults to `/oauth/callback` on the current origin) |
| `storageKeyPrefix` | `string` | Storage key prefix for OAuth data in localStorage (defaults to "mcp:auth") |
| `clientConfig` | `object` | Custom configuration for the MCP client identity |
| `debug` | `boolean` | Whether to enable verbose debug logging |
| `autoRetry` | `boolean \| number` | Auto retry connection if initial connection fails, with delay in ms |
| `autoReconnect` | `boolean \| number` | Auto reconnect if an established connection is lost, with delay in ms (default: 3000) |
| `transportType` | `'auto' \| 'http' \| 'sse'` | Transport type preference: 'auto' (HTTP with SSE fallback), 'http' (HTTP only), 'sse' (SSE only) (default: 'auto') |
| `preventAutoAuth` | `boolean` | Prevent automatic authentication popup on initial connection (default: false) |
| `onPopupWindow` | `(url: string, features: string, window: Window \| null) => void` | Callback invoked just after the authentication popup window is opened |

#### Return Value

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `state` | `string` | Current connection state: 'discovering', 'pending_auth', 'authenticating', 'connecting', 'loading', 'ready', 'failed' |
| `tools` | `Tool[]` | Available tools from the MCP server |
| `resources` | `Resource[]` | Available resources from the MCP server |
| `resourceTemplates` | `ResourceTemplate[]` | Available resource templates from the MCP server |
| `prompts` | `Prompt[]` | Available prompts from the MCP server |
| `error` | `string \| undefined` | Error message if connection failed |
| `authUrl` | `string \| undefined` | Manual authentication URL if popup is blocked |
| `log` | `{ level: 'debug' \| 'info' \| 'warn' \| 'error'; message: string; timestamp: number }[]` | Array of log messages |
| `callTool` | `(name: string, args?: Record<string, unknown>) => Promise<any>` | Function to call a tool on the MCP server |
| `listResources` | `() => Promise<void>` | Refresh the list of available resources |
| `readResource` | `(uri: string) => Promise<{ contents: Array<...> }>` | Read the contents of a specific resource |
| `listPrompts` | `() => Promise<void>` | Refresh the list of available prompts |
| `getPrompt` | `(name: string, args?: Record<string, string>) => Promise<{ messages: Array<...> }>` | Get a specific prompt with optional arguments |
| `retry` | `() => void` | Manually attempt to reconnect |
| `disconnect` | `() => void` | Disconnect from the MCP server |
| `authenticate` | `() => void` | Manually trigger authentication |
| `clearStorage` | `() => void` | Clear all stored authentication data |

## License

MIT
